I just had a conversation with somebody
I've known on the internet for five
years but we haven't really spoken in
five years and we were exchanging
observations on why it is that life in
the United States of America is so
unbelievably intolerably awful stay with
me for a minute here I really think that
most people who are born and raised in
Europe who have never been to United
States of America
they cannot imagine how awful daily life
is in the city of Seattle many Americans
will tell you that Seattle is one of the
most wonderful cities in America that
it's one of the most pleasant to live in
let me tell you something if you compare
Seattle to Brussels if you compare
Seattle to Perpignan if you compare
Seattle to second and third rate cities
within Europe daily life in Seattle is
unbelievably horrible compared to life
in those European cities and I would go
so far as to say there is not a single
city in the United States of America not
one where life is as pleasant as daily
life in cote d'azur south of france not
one now America has this tremendous
reputation that is partly projected
through television movies even things
like sports that always seems very
strange to me born I was living in
France I had some tragicomic
conversations with French people who
told me because I was Canadian we were
speaking French by the way I don't speak
French that well but enough um and they
told me that their dream was to move to
Canada and live there and here I was I
just escaped from Canada to France I was
living in France I was applying to
become a French citizen and you know
when asked why not too offensive their
answers often did revolve around
watching sports on television hockey
baseball football this was their
impression of Canada not a single one of
these people would actually visit Canada
so
the main purpose of this video is
actually to kind of challenge my own set
of values and assumptions at the
beginning of this conversation with an
old friend
I was bringing up put it this way I was
bringing up points about life here in
Canada the United States that I've said
to my girlfriend many times that I've
said to my mother and my deceased father
many times I feel like fundamentally
what we're dealing with here in Canada
is an inestimable cultural deficit
because we live in a country built on
genocide that the erasure of the culture
that was here before the failure to
either preserve and promulgate that
native culture the failure to even have
some kind of hybrid culture you know
interacting between Europeans and Native
people which you could argue at least
some areas in Mexico at least some areas
in Brazil have a kind of hybrid culture
of indigenous and foreign parts instead
in Canada United States you're talking
about a total cultural genocide and then
on the basis of that cultural genocide
what did we construct can we even say
this is a second-rate imitation of
European culture my girlfriend and I
here we very frequently walk past the
Opera here in Victoria British Columbia
you probably didn't know there was an
opera in Victoria British Columbia
Canada most people who live here don't
know it to call it a second-rate
imitation of European opera is like an
insult to European opera I don't care
about opera I don't valorize opera my
point is this anyone could look at the
Opera that we have here which is by the
way totally dependent on taxpayer
support it's does not exist because
there's a you know population here that
loves opera the way that people in the
Czech Republic or Amsterdam or Germany
or Austria there are many countries in
Europe Italy that have a vibrant culture
of opera and includes both the people in
the audience and people on stage no
there's nothing like that here on either
side this is taxpayers money being spent
by the government to create the illusion
that we have some of this European
culture
European tradition which we don't in a
much more subtle way if you were to ask
why is the quality of education in the
university garbage why is the quality of
education of the high schools in primary
school I think it really is the same
thing I think that even though it's not
as glaringly obvious as the extent to
which the up the Opera is terrible our
universities and our schools are kind of
a hollow facade they're this paper-thin
imitation of European culture I would
even say that about our Constitution and
our politics and our version of
democracy right so what we have here in
Canada in many many ways is never going
to be as authentic as democracy in
Switzerland we could try we don't try
and when you're looking at the gravity
of this genocide you also have to look
at the failure to achieve anything great
thereafter we didn't it's not as if
Canada committed this genocide and then
built the pyramids
we didn't committed this genocide and
the country settled into this
unbelievably mediocre suburban you know
hockey playing marijuana smoking video
game addicted model of you know
development and the various factors of
that - the connection to European
Imperial is a British imperialism French
imperialism also American frozen we
could go on - those are themes and
topics have reflected on before with my
girlfriend with my parents people who
know me personally have heard me
reflecting those things what I'd say now
that's really a bit different and where
I'm challenging myself is this we have a
book here on the history of China if
you've studied the history of China in a
formal university course as I have what
you're told again and again and again is
that the Ching dynasty this is Cheng
spelled with a q qi ng the Ching dynasty
period is the lowest and the weakest and
the most terrible Denis T in this charts
is decline decline decline there's this
whole ethic or Athos of declines how the
tissue this is the navier-- this is the
low point of Chinese history after which
we get the ascent
into modernity supposedly right the
author of this book very bluntly argues
the exact opposite he says no this is
maybe the greatest period of the Chinese
Empire in many obvious and important
ways like military history so if you
actually care about battles if you
actually care about armies if you
actually care about conquering territory
this dynasty that everyone you know
formal historians but also just
generally the way the culture remembers
that period shows you what everyone's
remembering is a period of weakness and
decline and disintegration it was
actually the period of greatest strength
and they conquered huge amounts of
territory including Mongolia and
Syngenta so China really increased in
size permanently and this guy is saying
he's an expert I'm not he's saying if
you really study the battles if you
start to study the way the military was
organized now they fought and were armed
that this this really deserves to be
celebrated as something kind of
impressive as a tremendous honor what
this makes me reflect on is the extent
to which we as modern people with modern
values just fundamentally do not care
about military greatness like whatever
type of greatness China had in the Han
Dynasty or in the Ming Dynasty or the
tang dynasty or the song whatever the
greatness is that we're talking about
that we care about it's not military and
whatever greatness or whatever weakness
we perceive and we care about in the
Ching dynasty in that period has
absolutely nothing to do with military
strength so I feel like in the year 2020
the evaluation of the strength of the
United States of America
very simply falls into these two
separate yet strangely overlapping
categories what is the strength of the
United States of America military
nobody else has aircraft carriers like
the United States of America nobody else
has submarines that fire Tomahawk
missiles and by the way the reason for
that is those Tomahawk missiles can cost
over 1 million dollars per launch
mind-blowing the budget that has to go
behind these things right nobody else
has ships that can fire long-range
torpedoes satellite-guided with
tremendous accuracy over tremendous
difference the way the United States is
unchallenged naval dominance
unchallenged air force dominance and yes
yes y'all there's this little thing
called the atomic bomb they have to back
it up with if what you care about is
military strength then of course this is
the Golden Age of the United States of
America if what you care about is the
ability to walk from city hall to the
nearest bakery without passing homeless
people living in tents no Pink's
surrounded by homeless drug addicts and
without being let's be honest afraid for
your life it's unbelievable how awful
life is in every major city the Unites
States America because in all cities and
it's easier if what you care about is
the quality of education and
cosmopolitanism the character of the
people and just just in a simple
unpretentious sense I have a
seven-year-old daughter would I want to
raise my daughter here in Canada or in
France would you want to raise your son
or your daughter in downtown Seattle in
Los Angeles or in a fundamentally
functional city like Brussels in Belgium
Brussels is not the most romanticized
city in Europe it's most people wouldn't
even put it in the top ten list of
desirable places in Europe but I would
say there was not a single city in the
United States of America that's as good
a place to live as Brussels all right
so yes there's the quality of life
there's the character of the people
there's the quality of education and
there's
the possibility of leading a meaningful
life all right the type of wealth that
matters to me the type of power that
matters to me is not the wealth and is
not the power that the United States of
America has in such tremendous
quantities and I can say to you honestly
as someone whose lives all over the
world I used to live in a backward small
city in communist China a city that
Chinese people themselves consider poor
and a bad place to live I do not believe
there's a single city in the whole the
United States of America that's as
wonderful a place to live as that city
in China and if you ask me why it's all
of these things taken together it's the
fact that that city in China has four
living languages that it's not built on
genocide that their indigenous people
are still there and so living there that
they have this tremendous cultural depth
that isn't just Chinese it's actually
several different cultures coming
together and it's the quality of
Education and the character of the
people and their commitment to education
there are a whole lot of components that
go into it
they're components that can't easily be
replicated in the United States nor in
Australia nor in Canada nor in these
fragments of the predator Empire you
know built on genocide they're all the
impalpable things that separate a
university that may have opulent campus
opulent sports stadium and a great
football team that's what American
universities have that's what Canadians
universities have right and yet there
are all these important ways in which
university education high school
education all levels of education in
Canada United States are an absolute sad
joke compared to the universities of
Europe right we're at a crossroads now
figures like Bernie Sanders even more
explicitly the filmmaker Michael Moore
they asked the question can America
catch up with Europe and the same
question is pole
can America catch up with Japan
can America catch up with Taiwan Taiwan
has single-payer healthcare Scotland has
a socialized healthcare public payment
system for healthcare National Health
Service put it right there are some
really obvious ways in which the United
States is simply behind and they're not
just behind Europe anymore they're also
lagging far behind even compared to
these countries in Asia so if we can
recognize that if we can start asking
those questions maybe maybe in the next
hundred years Americans and Canadians
can start coming up with the solutions
but I've got to tell you in terms of how
I feel at 41 years old I just want to
run away I know I can have a better life
in this in Hong Kong in Beijing in
dehang even in Thailand I know what can
have a better life than this in like the
worst city imaginable in Western Europe
it's very very hard to live with the
crushing compromises that 21st century
culture imposes on us as Canadians and
Americans